---
layout: ../../../layouts/PostLayout.astro
title: Sunbeam on a Golden Hour
author: me
date: February 07, 2023
wordcount: 319
readtime: 2
description: An essay on how I relate golden hour and nostalgia.
---

The _golden hour_ is a special time of day when the sun is low in the sky and its rays cast a warm and soft glow on the world. As the beams of light filter through the window and into my home, I am transported back in time, to a place where the worries of the present are but a distant memory. The word that comes to mind is nostalgia, a longing for the past and a yearning for what once was.

_Nostalgia_ is a strange phenomenon, as it is both a source of comfort and a cause of sadness. It reminds us of simpler times, of a world before the complexities of adult life weighed us down. Yet, at the same time, it is a reminder that those times are gone, that we can never return to them.

But the beauty of nostalgia is that it allows us to hold on to the memories of our past, to cherish the moments that have shaped us and to reflect on the journey we have taken to get to where we are now. It is a reminder that we are not just defined by our present, but by the sum of all our experiences, good and bad.

_Nostalgia_ is a powerful tool for shaping our future. It gives us a sense of direction, a North Star to guide us in our quest for happiness and fulfillment. When we reflect on what has brought us joy and comfort in the past, we can make more informed choices about what we want our future to look like.

As the golden light dances across my walls, I am filled with a sense of peace. It reminds me that, no matter how much the world may change, there will always be moments of beauty and serenity to be found. And in those moments, I will always have my memories, my nostalgia, to hold onto.